# Optimal Career Path Finder

This project examines the various career paths chosen by a diverse class of people, ranging from working professionals and job seekers. The idea behind this project is to build a machine learning model classifier that predicts the career based on his/her 12th marks, Big 5 personality trait score, IQ, EQ, memory score and socio-economic factors.  

First step is to collect the data from working professionals which includes his/her 12th marks, socio-economic factors and several test is conducted which includes Big 5 personality test score of each trait, IQ, EQ and memory score is calculated. The data is collected using google form. About 8 lakh data is collected which includes 4.5 lakh data collected form working professionals who previously studied in science ,2 lakh data collected from working professionals who have studied commerce and 1.5 lakh data collected from working professionals who have studied humanities after their matriculation. So, there are 3 dataset each which includes careers related to science, commerce and humanities stream.

Second step is data cleaning and pre-processing which includes removing redundant data and converting categorical data into numerical data. The dataset contains total 8 lakh scaled data and 22 features and 1 output label. After that, several supervised machine learning algorithms have been implemented which includes Naïve Bayes, SVM, Decision Tree, Logistic Regression, Adaboost, Multilayer Perceptron. The evaluation of the performance of each of the algorithm can be done in the terms of accuracy and time taken for execution. The best machine learning model is selected based on the accuracy and time taken for execution. 

Third step is building a web app and deploying the trained machine learning model using flask. Initially, feedback is collected from the students in order to determine whether the student likes the current stream or not. The feedback collected from the student is analyzed using natural language tool kit. If the feedback is positive, the student is redirected to the page which contains all the career related to his/her chosen stream in 12th class. Otherwise, career related to different stream is recommended to the student. After that student have to enter his/her 12th marks, Big 5 personality test, IQ test, EQ test, memory test is conducted and the score is calculated and several other academic information is collected from the student. The data collected from the student is cleaned and pre-processed and is given as an input to the trained machine learning model. The model detects patterns in the data and recommends the most suitable career.
